## Questions

### Large un-indexed tables
In `random.sql` there is a slow query which joins three un-indexed tables
together.  Since this is a nested for loop and the tables are roughly the
same size then it will take *O(N^3)* time.

1. Now figure out how to index the table(s) such that the query is able to run
much faster.
```sqlite3
CREATE INDEX Idx1 ON TEST1(x,y,z);
CREATE INDEX Idx2 ON TEST2(x,y,z);
CREATE INDEX Idx3 ON TEST3(x,y,z);
```  

2. Quantify the time taken for each version with the `.timer` command.
#### Before indexing the tables
```sqlite3
sqlite> .open random.db
sqlite> .timer ON
sqlite> SELECT COUNT(*) FROM TEST1 t1
   ...>     JOIN TEST2 t2 ON (t1.x) = (t2.x)
   ...>     JOIN TEST3 t3 ON (t1.y) = (t3.y)
   ...>     WHERE t3.z > t1.z;
1 Run Time: real 0.039 user 0.015625 sys 0.000000
```
#### After indexing the tables
```sqlite3
sqlite> .timer ON
sqlite> SELECT COUNT(*) FROM TEST1 t1
   ...>     JOIN TEST2 t2 ON (t1.x) = (t2.x)
   ...>     JOIN TEST3 t3 ON (t1.y) = (t3.y)
   ...>     WHERE t3.z > t1.z;
1 Run Time: real 0.015 user 0.015625 sys 0.000000
```  

3. Write pseudo code explaining how the fast query is now being implemented.
```python3
for row in itertools.izip(table1_idx, table2_idx, table3_idx):
    if row.table1_idx.x  == row.table2_idx.x:
        if row.table1_idx.y  == row.table3_idx.y:
            if row.table3_idx.z > row.table1_idx.z
                print(row)
```
4. Give your estimate of the asymptotic scaling behavior in big-Oh notation for the fast query.
Each of the tables have 10,000 rows, and since we constructed covering indices for each one of them
the estimated search time is scalling as a sum of the binary search that is done three times.
Numerically: 3 x Log(10^4) = 27.6310
Theoritically: k x Log(table_size)  

5. Give the asymptotic scaling behavior for creating an index.
To create an index for a given table, we need to loop through all elements and sort them based on IDs.
This operation can take N to go through the rows then Log(N) to sort them all.
(Note that SQLite's query planner is smart enough to create temporary indices
in this case, and it's still faster than the naive scan.  We have to
explicitly turn off the automatic indexing to better understand what's going
on.)

### Query optimization and indices

Some SQL commands can run much faster if the order of constraints is changed.
For example, consider:
```sqlite3
SELECT Name, Phone FROM Customer WHERE Gender = 'f' AND ZipCode = '90210';
```
It would be inefficient to efficiently find all female customers, and then
scan through all zip codes.  Instead it is better to find all customers in the
given zip code and then select the women.  

1. Give pseudo-code for the case that there are no indexes.
```python3
Customer_female = []
for row in Customer:
    if row.gender == female:
        Customer_female.append(row)
for row in Customer_female:
    if row.zipcode == '90210':
        print(row)
```
2. Give pseudo-code for the case that there is an index on Gender. Roughly how
much more efficient is this than without any indices? (Assuming that your
customers are evenly split between men and women.)
```python3
for row in Customer.idx_female:
    if row.zipcode  == '90210':
        print(row)
```
The above code would run faster as we already split the table between female and male 
using indices, thus, there's no need to loop through the whole table but we can only select female customers.

3. Give pseudo-code for the case that there is an index on ZipCode.  Assuming
that there are roughly 10,000 different zip codes for your customers, how
much more efficient is this than without any indices?

```python3
for row in Customer.idx_zipcode == '90210':
    if row.gender  == female:
        print(row)
```
This code will surpass the step of scanning through all the zip codes but instead
it would only require a binary search O(log(10000)) = 9.21 to finish this operation.

4. Find out about composite indices.  What would a good composite index look
like in this case?  Write pseudo-code for this case.
Composite index is an index that refers to two or more columns, in the context of this example it would be:

```python3
for row in Customer.idx(gender, zipcode) == (female, '90210'):
    print(row)
```

4. Find out what a covering index is.  What would it look like in this case?
Is a covering index more or less efficient than a composite index, and why?

A covering index is when we create a composite index of the whole table (both the query elements and the output)
In the case of the example above, the columns added to the composite index would be  
phone | name | gender | zipcode  
A covering index is more efficient because we only need a single binary search through the table 
but using the composite index requires more than one binary search. Basically, they have the same big O notation but 
covering index runs in log(N) and composite index runs in M*log(N).
