## Design Patterns - Template

### Template - Queue
Read up on the implementation of the various Python Queue classes:
https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/3.5/Lib/queue.py
Don't pay too much attention to the low-level details, instead focus on the
high-level design of the three classes in that file.

In particular, notice how the `PriorityQueue` and `LifoQueue` have been
implemented.  This should highlight the power of a good design using object-
oriented techniques.

### Template - Simulation

The template design pattern is a powerful design pattern that usually forms the
basis of most frameworks.  In `template.py` a simple simulation framework is
given.  (Notice that the `AbstractSimulation` class doesn't need to know
anything about the `CannonBall` class, which inherits from
`AbstractSimulation`.)

### Template - unittest
A very useful framework that has been built into the python libraries itself
is `unittest`.  This module builds a simple framework for testing code.
One does this by writing small examples where one knows the input, as well as
what the output should be.  Creating many such different tests (each test
testing a different aspect of functionality) makes it very easy to detect
when a bug has been introduced.  One should just get into the habit of writing
tests with the functionality that you are developing, and one must also run
those tests before pushing any new features live.

*Unit testing is very important and will be fully covered in a later unit which
focuses on the automated testing and deployment of a system. You are still
encouraged to write unit tests for your project in the meantime!*

## Questions
**Bring both your code, and the output from running your code, to class.**

1. Explain the difference between a normal queue, a priority queue, and a LIFO queue.  Give a real-world example where one might find each type of queue.
- Normal queue: It's a linear data structure that follows the order of First In First Out
- priority queue: A priority queue is ordering its data based on a metric that is associated with each datum, the general structure for such queue is a tuple where the first element stands for the priority value and the second element in the datum.
- LIFO queue: Stands for Last In First Out, which is a reverse of the normal queue, this structure resembles a stack which is analogous to a stack of plates where the last one on top is the one that can be retrieved first.

4. Think about the subsystem for the final project that you are working on. What unit tests could you write to test the functionality of that system. Remember to keep the tests as small and targeted as possible!  Write up a short description of those tests and bring them to class in a format suitable for pasting in a google doc.

The parking app is supposed to check for vacancies in the parking garage, an example test is to create a request for renting a parking space then check that the number of vacancies is decreased by one. We can also integrate a test that estimates the price a client has to pay based on the time they left their cars in the parking garage.
If the system's components can be organized as: Request --> check for vacancy --> approve request --> confirm the arrival of the client's car --> check out.
Tests can be designed to record that the total number of ID clients throughout this process is the same until the client leave the parking garage.

5. (Optional) The queue class is thread safe.  Search the internet to find out what this means.  What is required to make `put()` and `get()` thread safe?
